# Feature-Extraction-of-Pattern-in-Palate-Images-using-Image-processing-
INTRODUCTION In this world of simulation, the identity of any individual is always questionable in situations of mass massacres and disasters. A lot of literature is available on forensic odontology tools, but still this branch of odontology is in its infancy stage in India. Establishing a person’s identity can be a very difficult process in forensic identification. Dental, fingerprints, and DNA comparisons are the most common techniques used in this context allowing fast and secure identification. However, since they cannot be always used, sometimes simple techniques can be used successfully in human identification,such as ‘Palatal rugoscopy, ‘ which isthe study of palatal rugae. Palatal rugae have been equated with fingerprints and are unique to an individual. It can be of special interest in edentulous cases and also in certain conditions where there are no fingers to be studied, such as burned bodies or bodies that underwent severe decomposition. Palatal rugae are irregular, asymmetric ridges of the mucous membrane extending laterally from the incisive papilla and the anterior part of the palatal raphe. The location of palatal rugae inside the oral cavity confers them with stability even when exposed to high temperatures or trauma. Their resistance to trauma and their apparent unique appearance has suggested their use as a tool for forensic identification. 1.1 Problem Statement The uniqueness of palatal rugae pattern can be utilized similar to fingerprints and when combined with other methods, it can help in the identification of a person. Thus, these unique characteristics of the palatal rugae can be studied and can be enhanced a using Image processing and can be used as identity for the each individual. By using the data samples of palates of different individual, uniqueness of the identity can be recognized. The image processing techniques can be applied to these data samples to get the desired result.
